Google Cloud Platform — Service Specific Terms
Section: "Generative AI Services" (numbered Section 20 as of this capture; formerly Section 19)

Source page : https://cloud.google.com/terms/service-terms
Retrieved   : 2026-08-28 (UTC) via curl
Page Last-Modified header at capture: Thu, 30 Jul 2026 13:06:18 GMT
Saved copy  : gcp-service-specific-terms_2026-08-28.html (authoritative full page)

This is a plain-text extraction for quick reference only. The saved HTML file is
the archival copy; if they disagree, the HTML (and the live page) governs.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
20. Generative AI
Services (formerly Section 19 (Generative AI Services)) .

a.
Definition. “Generated Output” means the
data or content generated by a Generative AI Service
prompted by Customer Data. Generated Output is Customer
Data. As between Customer and Google, Google does not
assert any ownership rights in any new intellectual
property created in the Generated Output.
b. Disclaimer.
Generative AI Services (as described at

https://cloud.google.com/terms/services )
use emerging technology, may provide inaccurate or
offensive Generated Output, and are not designed for or
intended to meet Customer’s regulatory, legal, or other
obligations. Customer acknowledges that a Generative AI
Service may, in some scenarios, produce the same or
similar Generated Output for multiple
customers.
c. Prohibited Use
Policy . For the purposes of Generative AI Services,
the Prohibited Use Policy located at

https://policies.google.com/terms/generative-ai/use-policy ,
as may be updated from time to time, is incorporated into
the AUP. 
d. Age Restrictions .
Customer will not, and will not allow End Users to, use a
Generative AI Service as part of a website, Customer
Application, or other online service that is directed
towards or is likely to be accessed by individuals under
the age of 18.
e. Healthcare
Restrictions . Customer will not, and will not allow
End Users to, use the Generative AI Services for clinical
purposes (for clarity, non-clinical research, scheduling,
or other administrative tasks is not restricted), as a
substitute for professional medical advice, or in any
manner that is overseen by or requires clearance or
approval from any applicable regulatory authority.
f. Suspected
Violations . Google may immediately suspend or
terminate Customer's use of a Generative AI Service based
on any suspected violation of Section 17(b) or subsection
(d) above.
g. Restrictions . The
restrictions contained in subsections (d) and (e) above
are deemed to be “Restrictions” or “Use Restrictions”
under the applicable Agreement.
h.
Handling of Prompts and Generated Output .
Absent Customer’s prior permission or instruction, Google
will not store outside Customer’s Account (i) Customer
Data prompted to a Generative AI Service for longer than
is reasonably necessary to create the Generated Output, or
(ii) the Generated Output.
i.
Additional Google Indemnification Obligations .
(i) Generated Output.
Google’s indemnification obligations under the Agreement
also apply to allegations that an unmodified Generated
Output from a Generative AI Indemnified Service using only
Google Pre-Trained Model(s), a Modified Google Model, or
a Customer Adapter Model used with a Google Pre-Trained
Model infringes a third party’s Intellectual Property
Rights. This subsection (i) (Generated Output) does not
apply if the allegation relates to a Generated Output
where: (1) Customer creates or uses such Generated Output
that it knew or should have known was likely infringing,
(2) Customer (or Google at Customer’s instruction)
disregards, disables, modifies, or circumvents source
citations, filters, instructions, or other tools Google
makes available to help Customer create or use Generated
Output responsibly, (3) Customer uses such Generated
Output after receiving notice of an infringement claim
from the rightsholder or its authorized agent, (4) the
allegation is based on a trademark-related right as a
result of Customer’s use of such Generated Output in trade
or commerce, or (5) Customer does not have the necessary
rights to the Customer Data used to customize or retrain
the Modified Google Model or Customer Adapter Model, or
customize such Generated Output using a Generative AI
Service. “Generative AI Indemnified Service” means a
Service or feature listed at

https://cloud.google.com/terms/generative-ai-indemnified-services ,
where the use of such Service or feature is not provided
to Customer free of charge.
(ii) Training Data.
Google’s indemnification obligations under the Agreement
also apply to allegations that Google’s use of training
data to create any Google Pre-Trained Model utilized by a
Generative AI Service infringes a third party’s
Intellectual Property Rights. This indemnity does not
cover allegations related to a specific Generated Output,
which may be covered by subsection (i) (Generated Output)
above.
j.
Modifying, Disregarding, or Disabling Safety Filters .
Google makes available safety filters for certain
Generative AI Services. Customer is solely responsible for
(i) its use, non-use, or modification (including
modifications made by Google at Customer’s instruction) of
safety filters in creating Generated Output, and (ii)
disregarding safety instructions or Documentation.

k . Grounding with Google Search . “Grounding with
Google Search” is a generative AI feature of Generative AI on
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Generative AI on Vertex AI)
that provides Grounded Results and Search Suggestions.
“Grounded Results” mean responses that Google generates
using the prompt from the End User, contextual information
that Customer may provide (as applicable), and results
from Google’s search engine. "Search Suggestions" mean search suggestions
that Google provides with the Grounded Results. If a
Grounded Result is clicked on, separate terms (not these
terms) govern the destination page. If a Search Suggestion
is clicked on, the
Google Terms of Service
govern the
google.com
destination page. Grounded Results and Search Suggestions
are Generated Output. “Links” are any means to fetch web
pages (including hyperlinks and URLs) which may be
contained in a Grounded Result or Search Suggestion. Links
also include titles or labels provided with those means to
fetch web pages. Excluding a Customer-owned web domain,
Customer will not assert ownership rights in any
intellectual property in Search Suggestions or Links in
Grounded Results.
(i)
Use Restrictions for Grounding with Google Search .
Customer:
(1) Will only use Grounding
with Google Search in a Customer Application that is owned
and operated by the Customer. Customer will only display the
Grounded Results with the associated Search Suggestion(s)
to the End User who submitted the prompt; provided, however,
that Customer may elect not to display Search Suggestions subject to the
conditions set forth on the

Pricing page.
(2) Will not, and will not
allow its End Users or any third party to, cache, frame,
syndicate, resell, analyze,
train on, or otherwise learn from Grounded Results or
Search Suggestions. For clarity, Grounded Results, Search Suggestions, and
Links are intended to be used in combination to respond to a given End User
prompt and it is a violation of these terms to use Grounding with Google
Search to extract or collect one or more of these components for another
purpose (for example, using programmatic or automated means to collect Links,
using Links to build an index, or using Links to identify destination pages
for crawling or scraping).

(3) Will not, and will not allow its End Users
or any third party to, copy, store, or implement any click tracking, Link-tracking
or other monitoring of Grounded Results or Search Suggestions, except that:
(3.1) Customer may copy and store, for up to
two (2) years, the Grounded Results:
(3.1.1) that were displayed
by Customer only to evaluate
and optimize the display of the Grounded Results in the
Customer Application;
(3.1.2) in the chat history of
an End User of the Customer Application only for the purpose of
allowing that End User to view their chat history.
(3.2) Customer may copy and store the
Grounded Result and Search Suggestions only for the purpose of and
for the minimum time necessary to comply with applicable law
or regulations.
(3.3) Customer may allow its End Users
to copy and store individual Grounded Results that Customer displayed
to that End User through the Customer Application as long as Customer
does not allow Grounded Results to be: (i) accessed or collected by
automated or programmatic means, or (ii) to be used to create a
database.
(3.4) Customer may monitor End
User interactions with their Customer Application
interface, however, Customer will not track whether those
interactions were specifically with a given Search
Suggestion or Grounded Result (in each case, in whole or
in part, including any specific Links).
(4) Unless permitted by
Google in writing (including in the Documentation):
(4.1) will not modify, or
intersperse any other content with, the Grounded Results
or Search Suggestions; and
(4.2) will not redirect End Users
away from destination pages, or minimize, remove, or
otherwise inhibit the full and complete display of any
destination page.
(ii)
Storage for Debugging . Customer
acknowledges that it is reasonably necessary for Google to collect and
store logs, which contains the following Customer Data: queries derived
from End User prompts and contextual information that Customer may
provide along with the prompts that are not associated with any
Customer or its End Users for up to three (3) days, and since such
information is being stored, Customer instructs Google that the stored
information can be used for debugging of systems that support Grounding with Google Search.
This is an exception to the security controls for Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Generative AI on Vertex AI),
as shown at
https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/security-controls .
See the Documentation for more information.
(iii) Guidelines . If Customer builds
an external-facing Customer Application, the

Client Application Guidelines
apply to the Customer’s use of Grounding with Google
Search. For purposes of the Client Application Guidelines,
Customer Applications that are using Grounding with Google
Search are considered Approved Applications.
(iv) Survival . This
subsection “Grounding with Google Search” will survive
termination or expiration of the Agreement, as applicable.

(v) When
Customer's use of Grounding with Google Search is only through the UI of
Gemini Enterprise, this Section (k) applies, except that subsection (k)(i)
is amended as follows:

(1) Subsections (k)(i)(1) and (4) above are deleted in their entirety.

(2) The first sentence of (k)(i)(2) is replaced with the following:

"(2) Customer will not, and will not allow its
End Users or any third party to, implement any click tracking, Link-tracking
or other monitoring of, syndicate, resell, analyze, train on, or otherwise
learn from Grounded Results or Search Suggestions."
(3) Subsection (k)(i)(3) is replaced with the following:

“(3) Will not, and will not allow its End Users or any third party to, copy or store Grounded Results or Search Suggestions, except that:
(3.1) Customer may copy and store the Grounded Result and Search Suggestions only for the purpose of and for the minimum time necessary to comply with applicable law or regulations.
(3.2) Customer may allow its End Users to copy and store individual Grounded Results that were displayed to that End User through the Customer Application as long as Customer does not allow Grounded Results to be: (i) accessed or collected by automated or programmatic means, or (ii) used to create a database.”
For clarity, when using Grounding with Google Search in Gemini Enterprise through Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform API, Section (k) applies without the amendments made by this subsection (k)(v).

l . Web Grounding for Enterprise . Section 20(k)
(Grounding with Google Search) also applies to Web Grounding for Enterprise,
except that: (i) all references to ‘Grounding with Google Search’ are replaced
with ‘Web Grounding for Enterprise’, (ii) in the “Grounded Results”
definition, the phrase ‘Google’s search engine’ is replaced with ‘GCP’s
web index’, and; (iii) subsection 20k(ii) is deleted.

m . Grounding with Google Maps . “Grounding with Google Maps” is a
generative AI feature of the Generative AI on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Generative AI on Vertex AI) Service that
provides Grounded Results. “Google Maps Grounded Results” mean responses
that Google generates using Google Maps Data in response to an End User
initiated prompt. “Google Maps Data” means the content originating from
Google Maps in the Google Maps Grounded Results, including in the output
text, in the metadata of the Google Maps Grounded Results, in the Google
Maps Links, and content accessed through Google Maps Links.
“Google Maps Links” mean the URLs that Google provides in a Google Maps
Grounded Result and any titles or labels provided with those URLs.
If Google Maps Links are clicked on, these separate
Google Maps
End User Terms
and the Google Privacy
Policy govern the destination page. Google
Maps Data in the text of a Google Maps Grounded Result will be identified
via the Google Maps Links. Google Maps Grounded Results are Generated Output.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, Google and its
content providers retain all rights to Google Maps Data.

(i) Use Restrictions for Grounding with Google Maps. Customer :
1. Will only use Grounding with Google Maps
in a Customer Application that is owned and operated by Customer and will only
use Grounding with Google Maps to display the Google Maps Grounded Results
with the associated Google Maps Links to the End User who initiated the
prompt.
2. Will not modify the Google Maps Grounded
Result or intersperse any other content with the Google Maps Grounded Result,
place any interstitial content between the text of the Google Maps Grounded
Result and the Google Maps Links or the Google Maps Links and the associated
destination page, or redirect End Users away from the destination pages or
minimize, remove, or otherwise inhibit the full and complete display of any
destination page.
3. Will comply with the Documentation.
4. Will not, and will not allow its End Users
or any third party to:
(a) cache or store Google Maps Grounded
Results except that Customer may cache or store Google Maps Grounded Results:
(i) for up to ninety (90) days, only to
evaluate and optimize the display of the Google Maps Grounded Results for
the Customer Application; or,
(ii) in the chat history of an
End User of the Customer Application for up to six (6) months for the purpose
of allowing that End User to view their chat history or to maintain prior
conversation context for that End User within the Customer Application;
(b) scrape any Google Maps Data;
(c) use Google Maps Grounded Results for
High Risk Activities, including activities such as emergency response
services; and
(d) distribute or market any Customer
Applications in any Prohibited Territory as defined in the Documentation.

(ii) Storage for Debugging and Testing . Customer acknowledges that it
is reasonably necessary for Google to store prompts, contextual information
that Customer may provide, and Generated Output for thirty (30) days for
the purposes of creating Google Maps Grounded Results, and since such
information is being stored, Customer instructs Google that the stored
information can be used for debugging and testing of systems that
support Grounding with Google Maps.

n . Agentic AI Services .

(i) Customer is solely responsible for: (a) the actions and tasks performed by
an Agentic AI Service or AI Agent; (b) determining whether the use of an
Agentic AI Service or AI Agent is fit for its use case; (c) authorizing an
Agentic AI Service or AI Agent’s access and connection to data, applications,
and systems; and (d) exercising judgment and supervision when and if an
Agentic AI Service or AI Agent is used in production environments to avoid
any potential harm the Agentic AI Service or AI Agent may cause.

(ii) Customer's access to and use of Agentic AI Services in Third Party
Services . Customer's use of Third Party Services is not governed by the
Agreement and may be subject to separate terms and conditions provided by an
applicable third party. Google disclaims all liability arising from
Customer's access to and use of any Third Party Service, and Google's
indemnification obligations do not apply to allegations arising from access
to or use of any Third Party Service. Customer acknowledges and agrees that
all of the terms of the Agreement, including Google's obligations under the
Cloud Data Processing Addendum, will apply to the Agentic AI Services
accessed via a Third Party Service, but not to the Third Party Service
itself. For the purposes of this subsection, “Third Party Services” mean
platforms, services, websites, software libraries, and APIs provided by
third parties.

(iii) The actions or tasks that an AI Agent performs are not Generated Output.

o . Provisioned Throughput . Provisioned Throughput
is a feature of the Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform API (formerly Vertex AI API). If Customer uses
Provisioned Throughput, Google will use commercially
reasonable efforts to prioritize Customer’s throughput for
its API calls to the designated models available through
Generative AI on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform (formerly Generative AI on Vertex AI). Notwithstanding any other
provision of the Agreement related to product
discontinuation, Google may discontinue Provisioned
Throughput for any model available through Generative AI on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform by providing Customer at least 6 months’
prior notice, with no notice required if Google replaces
such functionality with materially similar functionality.
